Jun 25, 2004
Rich
http://www.baal-peor.gq.nu/fuq/ssv/ss_interv124.html (archive.is/j3ZVU)

SSV:
How many of the GMP / Red Letter Media films have you been involved with?
Was high school the first time you had worked with Mike Stoklasa or had you known him before that?

RICH:
Ha, yeah I've been closely involved with nearly everything GMP related.
Everything from about 1993 or so, all the way up till we finished filming the last Oranges.
So yeah, since we met at the infamous "art table" in high school.
The art teacher never really lectured much, he'd just give us assignments, which we'd work on all period whilst talking amongst ourselves about pretty much anything.
We brainstormed about a thousand different ideas/movies at that table, about one tenth of which ever made it onto video.
We've made about 10 or so feature length (or nearly feature length since 30 minutes seemed close enough to us back in high school) and HUNDREDS of shorts, some really bizarre and interesting stuff there.
Oddly enough, one of the FEW projects in that timespan that I wasn't closely involved with, and can take no credit for was one of your favorite GMP/Red Letter movies "White Thugs"

SSV:
Can you tell us anything about Oranges: Revenge Of The Eggplant that nobody else knows yet?

RICH:
Why I'll better that and tell you TWO things...
a) 90 percent of the fruit used in the movie are fake styrofoam fruit.
They were just easier to work with all around, they took to painting on a lot better than real fruit, and it wouldn't do to have our main cast constantly rotting on us, with the only two exceptions being Professor Sunkyst because he's SUPPOSED to look like an old rotting fruit (he's an actual dried up 10 year old orange) and Dr. Eggplant because you just cant find any decent looking fake eggplants
b) the horrible thing mentioned happening to sunkyst In "the 80's" was that Sunkyst went a little crazy and did unethical horrific experiments in reanimating dead rotting fruit in an attempt to resurrect his dead wife Eileen, who died in a tragic fighter jet accident only after Sunkyst encouraged her to follow her dream of becoming the Orange Air Force's first female jet fighter pilot.
c) I know which movie the zombie flashback is an homage to, but I'm not going to tell you.
figure it out on your own and bite me.

SSV:
What is your favorite Oranges episode to date and why?

RICH:
Well, obviously my favorite is the one we just finished.
it looks a thousand times better than any of the previous movies, from a technical POV after 6 shorts and two features we're really starting to get a hang for this Oranges thing.
I can't think of any microcinema projects out there that are similar, or at least on the same scale as Oranges.
Mike and I have worked towards creating a whole fantasy (but not quite so fantasy) world of our own.
I'll watch the short "making of" feature on the DVD and think to myself "we're crazy, we're absolutely freaking crazy".

SSV:
What are you up to currently?
Any future films?

RICH:
Unfortunately, I'm not up to anything at all right now.
Mike moved to Arizona last year, and I need to worry about finding a "real" job.
So unless Oranges does really really well, and I think I can earn a living wage making movies, I'm out of the game.

SSV:
Do you have a preference for microcinema films or full-scale motion pictures?

RICH:
Interesting question.
Most of my all time favorite movies are full scale motion pictures, (Dark City, Shawshank, Raiders of the Lost Ark...) but I don't think major motion pictures are better overall.
Just like in microcinema, you have a handfull of gems burried somewhere inside a huge landfill of junk.
For every two or three years worth of movies I'll only really like one or two of them.
If you look at the 95 - 2000 I only truly liked Fight Club, American Beauty, Dark City There are probably a few more that I can't think of offhand, but that's still like 8 movies out of 1000 that were released.
I think the TRUE advantage of no-budget microcinema, the one thing it has over big budget hollywood movies, is that you can find your own voice, say what you want to say without worrying about market shares or pie charts or executives breathing down your neck.
No-budget movies ARE mostly bad, you don't know what you're doing with the camera yet but it's interesting to watch somebody try, or learn.
It's the perfect place to be creative and to experiment.
The best no-budget movies search for their own voice.
I remember one of the first amateur works I'd seen (which shall remain nameless) was a bunch of college kids doing there level best to rip off Pulp Fiction, only poorly acted, poorly "written", and nobody knew what they were doing with the camera.
and I believe they charged 22 dollars for the privilege.
But you DO find gems out there (disconnected, lethal Force)

SSV:
Of all your accomplishments so far, which one are you most proud of and why?

RICH:
While I think our shorts are underestimated (like the one where I was randomly edited into Mary Kate and Ashley Olsen movies) Easily my favorite is the Long Walk Home (not the Oprah/Sally Field movie of the same name).
For some reason while making LWH everything just worked, the whole movie fell into place pretty much EXACTLY as Mike and I envisioned it.
It's the ONE movie I've ever made which I can look back on and not find any faults with it.
This is coming from a person who hates about 90% of the things he's worked on in the past, but I think The Long Walk Home is the ultimate amateur movie.
You'd understand if you'd seen it.

SSV:
Do you personally watch a lot of b-movies?
For example, have you heard of KWOON by Todd Roy?

RICH:
Not lately, not in about two years now.
I'm not as familiar with the b-movies as much as I am with the zero budget end of things.
Blank Screen Cinema, Orange Cow, quequeg, and a bunch of other crap.
I don't watch many movies these days in general.
A great love of movies wasn't why I got into moviemaking.
It was mostly just a personal creative outlet more than it was my emulating something I loved.

SSV:
Do you feel that the indie film genre is progressing or regressing?
What is your favorite motion picture if you had to pick one?

RICH:
Well, having been out of touch for a couple of years, and even before then I was always more focused on what we were going to do next, I find it really hard to answer the first part of that question.
I think that with the onset of the digital era (some time ago) you had an influx of people making cheap movies poorly.
*cough*Foxpack*cough*
When it was a pain to edit on a shoddy mixer or worse yet two VCR's you had to at least be dedicated.
But as I said earlier, your gems are still going to show up.
If I had to pick an absolute FAVORITE movie...believe it or not it's a microcinema movie.
I sadly don't remember who made it, I don't own a copy and unfortunately don't know where to go and get one, but my favorite movie is "Lethal Force" Made on a budget of I guessed 50,000 (though I think I heard it was made for much less) in any case, you never feel the budget while watching the movie.
It is flawless.
A perfectly shot, perfectly written, and perfectly acted 70's blacksploitation/kung-fu movie parody.
Gut splittingly funny the entire way through.
It was at a no-budget film festival in South Dakota (It used to be called "Camp Rewind" but I think they just call it the microcinema fest now) and this large group of no-budget filmmakers are hanging out in this theater watching movies when Lethal Force comes on.
And you barely heard anything but non-stop laughter for the entire movie.
Afterwards Mike, myself, and some other people who made comedies ran outside to catch a breath of fresh air and we were all both horribly miserable because we knew we'd never be able to make something that good, yet also terribly thankful to have seen that movie.

SSV:
What's the coolest DVD you've seen in the last three months and why?

RICH:
Futurama Season 3.
It was an underestimated show, and I hadn't seen most of the episodes from season 3 before.
I like the TV show seasons on DVD trend.

SSV:
What's your opinion on the legalization of marijuana?

RICH:
I'm not a pot smoker, but what do I care if people want to stick something which is less harmful than either cigarettes or alcohol in their bodies?
