Oct 17, 2004
Ron - Screaming Stoner Video
https://archive.vn/zoR3q (baal-peor.gq.nu)

SSV:
So how did you get involved with Jay Bauman?
You were part of the BSC posse from the start, no?


Jay and I met in the 2nd grade.
He got a camcorder.
Well, his grandmother got one and he always used it in, um, 4th grade?
So when I'd come over to play, we'd play with the camcorder running, if that makes sense.
We'd play television shows, movies, whatever.
So yeah, I was there from the start.
We'd mostly make up stuff, movies, as we went, until Jay started doing stuff for school.
If I remember correctly, he had to make a modern fable or fairytale or something and that was the first time I recall him writing any sort of script.
I would try to write stuff, but it'd always turn out pretty awful.
I think I've finally gotten better just recently.
Jay's a big help though.
It's good to have someone to bounce ideas off of.
I always like getting people's opinions.

SSV:
We've read that you became a monk in an underground cult for a while but returned, is this true?


Well, I wouldn't call it a cult exactly, I mean.er.what I mean is.
THERE IS NO CULT.
Incidentally, where did you read that?

SSV:
What is your personal favorite BSC film so far?


My personal favorite is Pervert Goes Home.
Who doesn't enjoy some good, ole fashion, eye-spunking hilarity?
I still think it's one of the funniest things he's ever written.
I just showed it to a friend a last week.

SSV:
What are your thoughts on Indulgence?


Indulgence.
Eh.
It's fine.
It has a lot of good elements, but if you think about it, it's pretty similar to Pervert.
Just a main character exploring himself.
One does it by going home to visit old friends; the other does it by getting highly intoxicated.
Oddly enough, he didn't do pot or acid or shrooms or any of that stuff.
Weird.
Just booze and paint and happy pills.
I guess happy pills could be comparable to acid, though the hallucination got cut out.
You know what that movie really needed more of though?
Me.
I mean, I'm a big fucking star, you know.
Just look at my immense body of work.
There's Indulgence and there's.um.Disconnected.and uh.others.I think.
Some student shorts.
I could've auditioned for this movie called "He Bop." I was talking to the director.
Now I wish I had, because the director went on to make Saved.
Oh, and I auditioned for Ryan Caulfield: Year One.
See?
Big fucking star.
Now suck my cock.

SSV:
Can you tell us anything about the movie that nobody else knows yet?

RON:
I was only there for about two days.

SSV:
Anything new in the works from Jay and you?
What's next from Blanc Screen?

RON:
Jay's working on Dinky Saves the Turtledoves, which is about an orphaned puppet that seeks out his birth family.
I'm working on a comedic short about an STD and commitment fearing, um, guy.
I was going to say sex addict, but I don't think that's the case.
So far it's about 24 pages, but I'd like to shoot it later this year.
I'm also going to try to write a feature-length drama about the perils of fame and friendship.

SSV:
What other movies have you appeared in, Blanc Screen or otherwise?

RON:
I already told you what a big, fucking star I am!
Damn!
Oh, I was also in the movie.
I think it was called Stalker.
I was the title fucking character!
I made the big bucks!
A whole, wait.
Okay, I think I got some food.
Wait.
No.
I was also the boom pole operator too.
And I'm sure you know how prestigious that is.
I was also Jesus in A Very Blanc Screen Christmas.
Please hire me.
In all seriousness though, I would like to get a main character role again.
Like with Disconnected.
That's why I can't wait until Jay gets to do his end of the world flick.unless he changes his mind about who to cast as the main character.
I'd also like to try some more serious stuff.
But good serious stuff.
Not that overdramatic drivel that so many people seem to be puking out these days.
Gettin' paid would be bitchin' too.

SSV:
What do you like to do as a person aside from acting?

RON:
I also make my own movies.
Some of my shorts can be seen on the BSC site.
I've also been in the local film fest (The Rock River Film Fest) all three years that it's run.
I'd like to think it's that I'm the only one that's been good enough to do so, but I think it's probably because nobody from the previous years has tried.
I've also been rejected from the Flyover Film Fest and the Microcinema Fest.
But that's cool though, I know the work wasn't quite up to par, and it's just too short to really be in a fest.
I might as well have been submitting a commercial, that's how short they are.
But it's cool though, I'm still a student, so I'm still learning my craft.
I'm working on my writing and plan to work on my directing, etc.
I'm getting much pickier nowadays in how my stuff is shot and what's it's shot on and all that jazz.
So yeah, my point was, I also write and direct.
Outside of that, I love music, mostly old punk, but a lot of other various things too.
I'm big on stand-up comedy, but only the greats like Carlin, Pryor, and other stuff.
I'm also big on sketch comedy like Kids in the Hall and Monty Python.
Trey Parker and Matt Stone are fucking brilliant.
By the way, Wanda Sykes ripped off my TV show idea.
I don't know how she climbed into my little head and stole it, but she did.
Just changed it a little.
I hang with my dog and family, I play video games, watch movies and TV, play pool, the usual.

SSV:
Do you like Megadeth?

RON:
Megadeth.
I don't think I've heard much, if any, of their tunes.
That song The Trooper by Iron Maiden is cool though.
Do I get my lapdance now?

SSV:
Do you feel that the indie film genre is progressing or regressing as a whole?

RON:
Yes.

SSV:
What is the coolest DVD you've seen in the last two months and why?

RON:
I don't know.
Dogville was an interesting movie though.
I can't really afford to go out and buy DVDs too often though.

SSV:
What are your opinions on the legalization of marijuana?

RON:
Go ahead.
Legalize that shit.
Makes you brain dead though.
Personally, I stopped smoking it when I woke up someplace different than where I remember falling asleep.
I barely even drink.
Plus I knew this one guy that used to be really funny but all he ever did was smoke up and now he's just sort of burnt out, which is really sad.
Legalize acid too, because I think people in the 60s had better stuff than us.
Some of the most brilliant minds of our time have been drug addicts at one point or another.
Fuck it, legalize all drugs.
Regulate it.
Prostitution too.
Just have regulation.
You'll lose a lot of crime that way.
And a lot of poor, unfortunate people will finally be able to get laid.
And give us our free fucking health care too, before I have to move to Canada.
