Oct 17, 2004
Interview with Jay Bauman of Blanc Screen Cinema (2004)
https://archive.vn/7cEDH (baal-peor.gq.nu)

How did you initially begin making movies?
What was your first "official" film?

I've been shooting stuff since I was about seven or so, when my Grandmother first bought a camcorder.
It was one of those early models, the big Marty McFly types.
I would go to her house on Sunday mornings and fuck around with it while the rest of my family sat in the dining room and talked about being good little Republicans.
I didn't start shooting projects with scripts and "actors" and all that nonsense 'til high school.
The first "official" film would probably be Disconnected.

How did the idea for Clowns & Suicide come about?
Is Brian real?

Everyone always asks if there really is a Brian! There isn't.
It's all bullshit.
Movies are total bullshit.
Hm, the idea for the movie came from me and Ryan Erke throwing scenarios back and forth for an improve-style movie that could be shot simply in one location with a small group of people.
I wanted to give Lisa something a little more dramatic to sink her teeth into, but still make her look completely ridiculous at the same time.
Plus, at the time we were putting that movie together, I was really into trying to find the balance between comedy and tragedy and intentionally tipping the scale.
I wanted to make something that kept horribly manipulating the audience.

What's coming next from Blanc Screen?

I tried doing a few short films for a while after "Indulgence" but really came to discover that I have nothing to say in the time span of 15-30 minutes, so now it's back to features.I'm working on the script for the next movie right now.
It's called "Dinky Saves the Turtledoves" and it's about this orphan puppet named Dinky that goes off in search of his long-lost family, only to discover that they're all vile, socially unredeemable people, and his attempts to convert them into moral and upstanding members of society.
It's gonna be much more experimental and satirical than anything we've ever done before.
It starts off as a 100% genuine children's movie and then drastically switches to a horribly dirty and perverted mess after that.
After "Indulgence," I've grown uninterested in pleasing an audience and just wanna do something completely shameless and savage.
I don't know when we're gonna start shooting that one yet.
Probably early 2005.

Of all the flicks you've made, which one are you proudest of and why?

Ya know, if you would have asked me that a year ago, I probably would have said "Clowns and Suicide," but I've regressed into a bitter asshole since then and now I've come back around to really liking "The Trouble with Her Uterus." I recently came to realize that it's probably the best written movie we've ever made in terms of character and plot.
On a technical level it's total shit, but it has a lot of important ideas in it, and is really socially conscious in it's own fucked up way.
But what I'm more proud of than any of the features is "Monkey Make Movie," our web series.
It's just free-floating, un-self-conscious comedy at it's purest.
That's a hard question to answer though, really, since there is so much in every movie I do that I greatly dislike.

Any plans to bring Sprinkles Hitler back in a future feature?

I don't know about Sprinkles, but Lora will definitely be back.
Definitely.
She was a real find, one of the only bright spots of "Indulgence" in my opinion.
I have Lisa to thank for bringing her on board.

What's the connection between GMP and Blanc Screen or is there?

I've known Mike for years and he's helped me on my movies, I've helped him on his, along with Rich Evans.
The biggest collaboration was probably the ill-fated "Gorilla Interrupted" that Mike wrote and directed and I acted in.
He's a good guy, odd and dry-witted.
He lives in Arizona now, so it makes it a little more difficult, but he did come to Milwaukee at the beginning of September and we shot this movie called "The Secret Stream," re-uniting the entire cast of "Gorilla Interrupted" minus that Gilchrist kid.
It was fun to shoot, but kinda fell apart at the end and degenerated into schlock.
I don't know what Mike plans to do with it now since it wasn't really finished.
There's some funny stuff in it though.
It was done more for the fuck of it than to make a "real" movie.
At least I think.
If we were supposed to be trying to make a "real" movie, then we failed miserably.

What do you like to do as a person outside of filmmaking?
Do you like Cypress Hill?

Cypress Hill is cool.
I don't any of their CDs or anything, but I dig 'em.
I just bought Green Day's new album and it's pretty interesting.
I was really into music when I was in high school, mainly punk rock and blues, but I don't listen to much music anymore.
Outside of filmmaking, I WATCH a lot of movies.
I kinda have a one-track mind.
But aside from that, I like to hang out with my friends, go drinking and whatnot.
I live in Milwaukee, so there's never a shortage of places to go drinking.
A lot of the people involved in the movies are my closest friends, so we have this bizarre little family unit, complete with squabbling and all.
I'm currently trying to occupy my spare time learning new skills, like teaching myself to menstruate.

Do you feel that the indie film genre is progressing or regressing?

A little of both probably.
People keep talking about this "digital revolution" as if it's gonna save cinema or something, but independent film is in the same place it was ten years ago, a few good ones and a LOT of shitty ones.
Only now that the technology is so readily available, there's even more garbage being pumped out.
Most of this shot-on-video nonsense shouldn't even be seen, much less distributed.
And the indie scene really hasn't changed Hollywood to any large extent.
They're still churning out "Van Helsing" and David Spade movies at a breakneck pace.
I heard they're making a sequel to "Deuce Bigalow." What the shit is that?
As far as independent movies go, I'm more interested in the ones that aren't trying to be mainstream at all, that exist completely on their own, separate from anything else.
Like Gus Van Sant or John Waters.
That isn't to say that I don't enjoy a good, well made popcorn movie.
"Sky Captain" was phenomenal.
I do hope that someday a tiny little movie comes along that completely changes the types of movies that Hollywood chooses to make, like "Easy Rider" did back in the 70's.
As for my own movies, at this level I'm doing them for the experience, not for profit or even art really.
Some are good, and some are "Indulgence," but I've learned a helluva lot from making one movie after the next.
If it leads to anything bigger and better, great, but if it doesn't, at least I know I've been trying to make the types of movies I would want to see.
Shit, where was I going with this?
Oh yes, the point that I'm trying to make is that I like candy bars.

What is the coolest DVD you've seen to date and why?

Anchor Bay's new Dawn of the Dead 4-disc life-consuming edition.
Hands fucking down! It's by far the most comprehensive examination of a movie I've ever seen.
The LOTR extended versions may have more content, but a lot of it is bloated.
The Dawn set is perfect.
Even though I don't make horror movies, George Romero is one of my heroes.
I feel like my sensibilities are very akin to his.

What are your opinions on the legalization of marijuana?

I'm all for it.
I don't smoke pot, but it's less harmful than cigarettes, so why not?
At the very least, maybe legalizing it would wipe out this idiotic pot-smoking sub culture that has bred Cheech and Chong worship and High Times magazine or these little stoner kids that think it's hilarious when their total at a retail establishment is $4.20.
Of course, if pot were legalized, they'd probably just find some new illegal activity to partake in to feel like they're getting away with something "naughty." I could do without those little assholes.
