Jun 13, 2004
Interview with Writer & Director Mike Stoklasa
https://archive.is/dCSEz (baal-peor.gq.nu)

How old is Dr. Sunkyst exactly?
Will he be starring in any upcoming films?

Dr. Sunkyst just had his ninth birthday.
He was grown in 1995 and that was when he first appeared in the first oranges short film.
He's since dried out and has to be constantly kept in a freezer to prevent him from turning into Dr. Pile of Moss.

How did the idea of the Oranges series come about?
How many adventures are there so far?

The oranges series started as a high school art project.
We were told to make a book as an art project and that we could work in pairs.
Me and Rich Evans teamed up and decided to make a "video book".
We had no idea what we were going to do it on and sat around for days trying to think up something.
The art teacher assistant, Mr. Carroll, was trying to help us think of an idea and then he said, "you can do it on anything" he picked up an Orange from this girls lunch and said, "You can do it on oranges!" and he was laughing and obviously joking, but we did it on oranges to mock him.
We quickly built a book and each page had a little blue screen on it and was replaced with moving video.
There were three little story chapters with talking oranges and Sunkyst served as the narrator.
The class liked it a lot so we made more shorts starring the professor.
After about 6 short films we did a feature in 2000 that was very ambitious in comparison to the shorts.
We had more complicated sets and a more grand story.
Then a few years later we decided to do another feature and upped it another notch in terms of complexity.

We've read that you're not too fond of White Thugz?
Why is that and will it ever see DVD?

I seriously doubt you'll ever see White Thugz as a DVD or re-edited or anything.
I'm fond of it like a fun times with friends sort of way, but it's not the best movie.
Haven't watched it in years.
I hate the pacing of mostly all of my old movies.

Where's the best place to order your DVDs online?

For oranges it's evileggplant.com that's the only film for sale currently.
My new movie company is redlettermedia.com and there will be a store up there soon with oranges and a new live music comp I'm working on.
Also a new feature is in the works for later on in the year and I'm toying with the idea of releasing a DVD of just GMP short films.

What are you up to currently?

Well I'm currently working on a live DVD feature 12 of the top Arizona local bands and started my new company Red Letter Media.

Of all your accomplishments to date, which are you most proud of and why?

Hands down The Long Walk Home.
The only film we ever made that I'm proud of every frame.
It's a deliciously wonderful in its conception and execution.
It's perfect and a total stroke of genius! Everything I've done except for that I've had problems with, but that movie is the top gold.
It was called brilliant and genius by Film Threat!

What advice to you have for aspiring filmmakers?
What director has inspired you most?

Advise would be to try to be as original as possible.
I guess I'd have to say Spielberg because I grew up watching movies from the 80's.
I'm not a big film geek.
I don't really care about the traditional slew of movies everyone says you have to see.
I was raised on movies like Gremlins, Ghostbusters, Star Wars, Indiana Jones and all that so that's shaped me.
That and the cartoon series Duck Tales.
I realized recently that Duck Tales for me and rich has inspired a lot of the crazy plot lines and stuff we've come up with.

Do you feel that the indie horror film genre is progressing or regressing?

I don't know that much about indie horror, but its obviously progressing in terms of technology and the number of people that are doing it compared to 10 or 20 years ago.
It just seems to me that it's a lot of churning out packaged video product now.
They don't make the original Halloween anymore.
Lots of killer something's and vampire boob shit.
Get it out with a nice box and make back your investment.
I've seen a number of direct to video horror movies and it just bores me.
So I guess my answer is that is progressing and regressing?
But then again, my opinion is limited because I haven't seen a lot of this stuff so maybe there are people out there doing really original scary things and it's just under my radar, which is usually turned off.

What's the coolest DVD you've ever seen and why?

Old Man by Guy McConnell.
It's amazing.

What's your opinion on the legalization of marijuana?

I think it'd be A-OK.
I'm sort of a social Darwinist so I think if people want to smoke its fine with me, just don't drive/operate heavy machinery.
Pot is in an alcohol/cigarettes class with me for the most part.
At the onset of legalization it'd probably destroy an entire generation of young people, but it'd weed (pardon the pun) out the dummies.
Then the craze would subside a bit, the fascination with the illegality would go away.
Crime would drop.
Prison populations would lower.
Drug lords in South American countries would be broke. etc.
We'd have a lot more money from the drug war to spend on rehabilitation clinics and social programs to help people get off pot Harder drugs should still be illegal though.
