Aug 30, 2011
Mike & Jay are Half in the Bag - Sexy Nerd Girl @ 2011 Wizard World Chicago Comic Con
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zIjX8thR7t4

Stephanie: So, we're hanging out here in Chicago this time with our old pals, can I call you pals? Is that okay?
Mike: Okay, not pals.
Stephanie: Okay, not pals. My acquaintances?
Mike: That works, that works, yeah.
Stephanie: Okay, my two acquaintances, Mike and Jay from Red Letter Media.
Mike: Well, we've been working on our show called Half in the Bag.
Stephanie: Yes.
Mike: People have realized that Jay is person.
Stephanie: Okay.
Jay: Actually, over the course of the last couple of episodes, people have realized I have a name.
Stephanie: So you're building your own little fan base?
Jay: No, not at all.
Stephanie: Okay.
Jay: They just know my name.
Stephanie: Okay, well, I heard you guys are doing some with Machinima now.
Mike: Yes, yes. Episodes of Half in the Bag are going up on Machinima.
Stephanie: Okay.
Mike: As well as our own website. 
Stephanie: Yeah.
Mike: But they're shorter versions for Machinima because of YouTube time constraints.
Stephanie: So it's like quarter, Quarter in the Bag?
Mike: Oh, yeah.
Stephanie: Yeah?
Mike: Yeah, I guess that's an accurate way of saying it, yeah.
Stephanie: Okay.
Mike: I tried to talk to Patrick Stewart, but I didn't have $70. It costs $100 to look at him, and $70 for his autograph, yeah. 
Jay: For $150, he'll make eye contact with you.
Stephanie: For $200, will he shave off his goatee?
Mike: I don't know, yeah. I don't like the goatee.
Stephanie: Me neither. I want classic P. Stew. All the time.
Mike: He should look the way he looked in Star Trek: The Next Generation.
Stephanie: Always.
Mike: I demand that. 
Stephanie: Until the day he dies. Then he should be embalmed, and just, like...
Mike: He needs to be buried in his captain's uniform, and shot out into space, regardless of his personal wishes.
Stephanie: Right.
Mike: So where's guy at, that fraud?
Stephanie: He couldn't come.
Jay: I heard him saying things about guy earlier.
Stephanie: Oh, really? What do you have to say about my dear, dear friend, Guy?
Mike: I dunno. I just think he's kind of an idiot. 
Stephanie: Okay.
Mike: He shows up late to things.
Stephanie: Well, you're right. You're right, he does show up late.
Mike: He calls me Mike Stuck-Chuck-a-Ninja.
Stephanie: He's very bad. He has bad, he has a speech impediment.
Mike: He has a brain impediment.
Stephanie: Okay, well, maybe that's a bit harsh.
Mike: I wouldn't want to meet him in person or anything. He seems kind of like a miserable guy. He seems always kind of negative.
Stephanie: Yeah, he can be sometimes.
Jay: Well, if there's one thing you hate, it's negativity. I know that. You're not a fan of negative people, or being negative.
Mike: Very positive. Very forward-thinking.
Stephanie: Great.
Mike: I never complain.
Stephanie: Never.
Mike: No. So, um, you're here in Chicago.
Stephanie: Yeah.
Mike: What hotel are you staying at?
