Mar 11, 2011
Nerd Alert - Pokemon Black White (special guest Mike Stoklasa)
https://twitter.com/redlettermedia/status/46444970621677568
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iD97UzRE5Rc
https://archive.is/Ub1ne (collegehumor.com)

Jeff: Our next guest released a critique of The Phantom Menace that was almost as lng as the film itself. Let's take a look at the clip. Please join me in welcoming via robo-guest, Mike Stoklasa. Mike, how you doing?

Mike: Hello, everybody. Hello.

Jeff: We don't also talk about how you feel about the Phantom Menace. That's pretty clear how good would these new special effects in this new 3d have to be to make you enjoy this film.

Mike: I think the special effects are good enough. I think that's not the problem with the movie, of course. But, yeah, I don't think I'll be seeing the Phantom Menace in 3d any time soon.

Jeff: They've had some trouble in the past with these 2d to 3d conversions, like The Las Airbender and Clash of the Titans. Do you think Lucas is going to do anything better to make it in any way shape or form more palatable?

Mike: I don't know. Lucas has been you know that the guy who's always advancing technology, so possibly, but I don't know what you can do. You know, I've actually never seen a 2d movie converted into 3d, so I'd be interested to see it just based on that.

Jeff: I like how you open with, I'm definitely not going to see, and then you were like, but I've been kind of interested in seeing the 2d to 3d. I mean, maybe I'll see it.

Mike: I think he should release the first Star Wars film first. You know I think that would do better.

Jeff: Right. Well, we're gonna get there. They're going in narrative order, we just got to wait three years to get to the movies anyone actually wants to see. How many times did you watch The Phantom Menace to put together your critique.

Mike: I actually saw it before it came out.

Jeff: Whoa, how'd you do that?

Mike: Um, I worked in a movie theater at the time, so I got to go to an exhibitor screening.

Jeff: Do you remember back in '99, before we knew how bad that movie was, and like, this the excitement of people, like, bursting into the door rushing to go see the movie.

Thomas: Me and my friend did bring our lightsabers.

Jeff: Oh, yeah. We brought our lightsabers.

Thomas: We were so excited, and I left so mad.

Jeff: I think after I saw the movie, I didn't immediately recognize how terrible it was. Did you recognize how bad it was immediately?

Mike: I, of course, was, you know, overwhelmed with a lot of the hype, and it was really exciting seeing it early like that, you know, because everyone was cheering and, you
know, it was exciting. But, yeah, you had the sinking feeling afterwards. I was just, like, you know, there was going to be a nuclear war something. You couldn't tell anybody. 

Jeff: So you also did a 90-minute review of Attack of the Clones. You did a 90-minute review of Revenge of the Sith. And I feel like the nerd hive mind has kind of come to the consensus that maybe Revenge of the Sith isn't quite as bad as Attack of the Clones and The Phantom Menace. Maybe it has a few more redeeming qualities. Do you think there's any truth to that?

Mike: It's missing a lot of the elements that made all the first ones bad, you know. Like, no kids, no horrible love story. Very little Jar Jar Binks, if any. Um, so it's the most palatable one out of all three, but it's also very boring as well.

Thomas: I hate all three of them with such a passion, and I think any Star Wars fan who's, like, I think they're okay, is just, like, trying to save that childhood memory of like, Star Wars is awesome. They are all so bad. 90 minutes isn't long enough to describe how bad those movies are.

Jeff: Mike, level with me. I know The Phantom Menace is not very good, but as a Star Wars fan, are you going to pay to see it in 3d next year?

Mike: No.
