May 7, 2012
135 CPH PIX 2012 #6: Den ultimative "Star Wars"-hader
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uKy43Kgv7wk

JOHANNES:
Welcome to Filmz TV.

MIKE:
Oh, my god.
Filmz TV?
What the hell is this crap?
Who does this Johannes guy think he is, some kind of interviewer?
This is a bunch of crap.
Oh, my god.
I can't believe I'm on this show.
This is embarrassing me.
I gotta go now.
My cat's hungry.

JOHANNES:
[Speaking Dutch]

MIKE:
I didn't actually have the idea to make reviews like, per se.
Like, I'm gonna go out and start making movie reviews.
It was just, the story goes, I bought Star Trek Generations because I hadn't seen it since the theater.
I hated it when I saw it in the theater.
So, it was, like, winter and there wasn't a lot of work going on at the time, so I was like...
I bought it and I watched it, and I just had this, like, urge just to really break it down about why I didn't like the movie.
And I didn't even really know that people did that sort of thing on the internet.
Like, I didn't even care.
It was just sort of a thing that...
It was like a little project working on.
And, um, I didn't know or expect anyone to really watch it.
You know, it's just one of those things where I was watching the movie and I'm like,
"That's wrong."
"That's horrible."
"That's wrong."
And I'm just like,
"I can't really ever talk to anybody about this."
You know?
It's, it's, like, something that would never come up in conversation in that deep level of detail.
So I'm just, like, just started writing out a script for it.
And then just started plugging all the points in and making, like, a video.
"Star Trek: Generations is the stupidest movie ever made."
"It ruined everything."
"And not just Star Trek movies, but everything."
"Why make of a video review of this movie after it's been out for like 14 years?
"Well, the truth is, I've got nothing better to do."
"But I've always wanted to articulate all the old points about what I hate aboutthis movie."
"So let's begin, shall we?"
Over time, it got more, more of a method to it over time.
Um, it, it just basically starts with me writing a script out.
And now I add the points in.
And I, I think in the first, the Generations review, I did two parts that were about 10 or 15 minutes long.
And then I wrote "The End" at the second one, and I was like,
"Oh, I have more."
So I just, I just continued on.
It was really kind of like a mess, you know?
But now it's like, I'll write out a script, and I'll try and get the script as tight as possible, um, before I start doing voiceover.
And then when I start doing voiceover, I'll usually ad-lib stuff.
And then, when I go in the editing process, I'll be editing something, and I'll notice a little something else and go,
"Oh."
And then I'll make a separate, a secondary script of pick-up lines.
Like a whole paragraph about, 
"I wanna add this about Luke Skywalker saying this or whatever."
A little point that I come up with, so...
And then it becomes like a refining process, going back and forth between editing and voiceover.
I originally recorded it as myself.
And, as you can see, and as you can hear, I sound like a boring asshole.
Um, I'm just like,
"Ehh..."
And was just, like, reading it, and it sounded like someone being sort of, like, I don't know...
Just sort of...
Just monotone and boring.
And I was like,
"Well, let me do it..."
I did it in a character voice that, uh, my friend Rich and I had used before in earlier short films.
So it's, it's this voice that's kind of fun to improv with.
And so I was like,
"Oh, I'll throw this character in, and I'll do it in a character voice."
And it was just sort of, it seemed like a natural, natural progression.
Or, a natural thing to do.
And I was like,
"Oh, okay."
"This, this adds a little level to it."
You know, it makes it funny.
"This is the first point they should've ditched Jar Jar."
"This is also the point when the movie starts to officially fall apart."
"This is the moment when the Star Wars saga is now damaged totally beyond repair."
"The lapses in common sense and logic begin to compound on the movie and now it is broken."

JOHANNES:
Well, of course, it's astonishing how popular these, these reviews have gotten.
Millions and millions of hits.
Have you been surprised yourself by the popularity?

MIKE:
Oh, yeah.
Yeah, I, was something I did not expect at all.
It's, it's still strange to me.

JOHANNES:
It must also be sort of surreal that you have now flown to a film festival in Copenhagen...

MIKE:
Yes.

JOHANNES:
On almost the other side of the world to talk about these films.
Were you surprised when you got that call?

MIKE:
I, I was surprised, yeah.
I, I, I said,
"Are you sure you want to do this?"
Because I looked at all the other films.
I looked at the website, and I was like,
"This looks like a, like a, like a nice film festival."
"Like a high-brow, artistic film festival."
"Are you sure you wanna play this, you know?"
And he's like,
"Yeah, yeah."
"All right."
Because there's a, there's a bit of, you know, juvenile humor...
Well, a lot.
Not just a bit.
You know.
And it's, it's not for everyone.
I mean, I, I can see the appeal of the reviews themselves.
Like the...
I mean, it's one of the things that I intentionally tried to do with it was the, the mixture of, of comedy and information.
It's like going back and forth.
You give the audience a little bit, and then you take it away.
And then you give them a little bit more, and you take it away.
It keeps them interested.
It keeps them watching for 70 minutes or 120 minutes, or whatever.
Um, but, I...
The universal appeal...
Like, I was...
One of the things, like, Jay was talking about with me about this festival, he's like, he's like,
"Is that humor gonna translate?"
You know, like, to, to, like, an audience, you know...
I mean, I know everyone here pretty much speaks English well.
But, you know, it just seems like people in other countries, like...
I get emails from people in, like, South America.
They wanna translate the reviews to, like, Spanish and Portugeuse, and stuff.
And I'm like,
"Okay, go ahead."
You know, is it still funny with Portugeuse subtitles?
I, I don't know.
That part, that part I don't understand.
But, I guess...
I don't know.
Maybe it's the, everyone universally understands the Star Wars movies.
Maybe that has something to do with it.
Because those are the most popular ones.
"So the film is called The Phantom Menace, and by the nature of the story there is no clear villain."
"Hey, idiot."
"You're not making The Usual Suspects here."
"You're making a movie for children, right?"
"Supreme Counselor."
"Delegates of the Senate."
"A tragedy has occurred, which started right here with the taxation of trade routes, and has now engulfed our entire planet in the oppression of..."
"How about a bad guy in the movie who's motivation is clear?"
"Commander, tear this ship apart until you've found those plans."
"And bring me those passengers."
"I want them alive!"

JOHANNES:
[Speaking Dutch]

MIKE:
Well, it, it's...
They're movies that I grew up with.
And, and that's what everybody says.
And I, I know the whole, like, "George Lucas ruined my childhood" angle.
Um, but I think, I think it's...
That's, like, that's, like, a crutch that some...
That's something people say as a, as an attack because it's not just that.
I think the original three were, um, they're universally loved movies.
And they, and they can appeal to any audience.
And, and people say that about the new ones.
"Oh, they're just movies for kids."
And all that stuff.
But it's not, it's not necessarily true.
I think they are bad movies, you know?
And that, that was just kind of my point, was to kind of articulate why.
But, like, you know, I was inspired by the Star Wars movies.
I've seen Emperor Strikes Back a million times as a kid.
And it's, like, those three movies are just burned into my brain.
I know every sound, every edit, you know, everything about them.
And it's not just because I grew up with them, watching them.
Because you could watch them now and still like them.
You can't go back and watch other things you watched as kids.
And they, they don't hold up, you know?
So...
And, and, I think, you know, it's like, certain movies are timeless.
And, and I don't think the new three are.
And that's just sort of the point is just to articulate that.

JOHANNES:
[Speaking Dutch]
