May 7, 2012
Mike Stoklasa
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uKy43Kgv7wk

JOHANNES:
Welcome to Filmz TV.

MIKE:
Oh, my god.
Filmz TV?
What the hell is this crap?
Who does this Johannes guy think he is, some kind of interviewer?
This is a bunch of crap.
Oh, my god.
I can't believe I'm on this show.
This is embarrassing me.
I gotta go now.
My cat's hungry.

JOHANNES:
[Speaking Dutch]

MIKE:
I didn't actually have the idea to make reviews like, per se.
Like, I'm gonna go out and start making movie reviews.
It was just, the story goes, I bought Star Trek Generations because I hadn't seen it since the theater.
I hated it when I saw it in the theater.
So, it was, like, winter and there wasn't a lot of work going on at the time, so I was like...
I bought it and I watched it, and I just had this, like, urge just to really break it down about why I didn't like the movie.
And I didn't even really know that people did that sort of thing on the internet.
Like, I didn't even care.
It was just sort of a thing that...
It was like a little project working on.
And, um, I didn't know or expect anyone to really watch it.
You know, it's just one of those things where I was watching the movie and I'm like,
"That's wrong."
"That's horrible."
"That's wrong."
And I'm just like,
"I can't really ever talk to anybody about this."
You know?
It's, it's, like, something that would never come up in conversation in that deep level of detail.
So I'm just, like, just started writing out a script for it.
And then just started plugging all the points in and making, like, a video.
"Star Trek: Generations is the stupidest movie ever made."
"It ruined everything."
"And not just Star Trek movies, but everything."
"Why make of a video review of this movie after it's been out for like 14 years?
"Well, the truth is, I've got nothing better to do."
"But I've always wanted to articulate all the old points about what I hate aboutthis movie."
"So let's begin, shall we?"
Over time, it got more, more of a method to it over time.
Um, it, it just basically starts with me writing a script out.
And now I add the points in.
And I, I think in the first, the Generations review, I did two parts that were about 10 or 15 minutes long.
And then I wrote "The End" at the second one, and I was like,
"Oh, I have more."
So I just, I just continued on.
It was really kind of like a mess, you know?
But now it's like, I'll write out a script, and I'll try and get the script as tight as possible, um, before I start doing voiceover.
And then when I start doing voiceover, I'll usually ad-lib stuff.
And then, when I go in the editing process, I'll be editing something, and I'll notice a little something else and go,
"Oh."
And then I'll make a separate, a secondary script of pick-up lines.
Like a whole paragraph about, 
"I wanna add this about Luke Skywalker saying this or whatever."
A little point that I come up with, so...
And then it becomes like a refining process, going back and forth between editing and voiceover.
I originally recorded it as myself.
And, as you can see, and as you can hear, I sound like a boring asshole.
Um, I'm just like,
"Ehh..."
And was just, like, reading it, and it sounded like someone being sort of, like, I don't know...
Just sort of...
Just monotone and boring.
And I was like,
"Well, let me do it..."
I did it in a character voice that, uh, my friend Rich and I had used before in earlier short films.
So it's, it's this voice that's kind of fun to improv with.
And so I was like,
"Oh, I'll throw this character in, and I'll do it in a character voice."
And it was just sort of, it seemed like a natural, natural progression.
Or, a natural thing to do.
And I was like,
"Oh, okay."
"This, this adds a little level to it."
