Sep 13, 2014
Rich Evans and Jack Packard
https://www.destructoid.com/blogs/CblogRecaps/cblogs-of-09-12-14-and-bbainisms-281141.phtml (archive.vn/QqyoX)

Hello everyone!
I've had a pretty uneventful couple of weeks as far as video gaming goes.
I got super burnt out on the internet recently (*cough*gamergate*cough*), so I've been trying to do other things rather than browsing Twitter and Cblogs and stuff, which basically resulted in watching a lot more video game streams and shows on Netflix than I normally do.

Scarritt introduced me to the Red Letter Media guys, who usually produce funny videos about terrible movies.
Two of the guys from Red Letter Media, Rich Evans and Jack Packard, recently started doing some video reviews of games, as well as streaming games, on a channel called Previously Recorded.
I've really been enjoying their streams!
They're really entertaining to listen to; Jack is always very enthusiastic and high-spirited, while Rich often becomes super focused and quick to anger while still having a lot of fun.
Plus they've been streaming a lot of really great games (Risk of Rain, FTL, XCOM, Dark Souls, Binding of Isaac, etc).
I don't watch too many streamers, but these guys are always fun to watch.

Aside from watching other people play games, I didn't actually play too many myself.
There was one game that I wanted to talk about though.
One of the fan-made Mega Man Legends 3 games that have been going around has finally been released; the 2D demake of the demo that was supposed to come out, titled Mega Man Legends 3: The Prologue.
It's really short, and I played through the whole thing in about 30 minutes (would have been way shorter, but I died a lot!).

I enjoyed it so much, though!
It really was a joy just to see those characters again in a video game.
The whole Legends universe is just fantastic, I really can't get enough of it.
Seeing the Bonnes again, and the Servbots, and Roll, and even minor characters like Denise Marmalade, really brought a smile to my face!
They even nailed the characters' personalities in their dialogue, like Teisel shouting, "H'alright!" (god I loved his voice actor).
And the Reaverbots!
I'd forgotten how much I love the designs for the Reaverbot enemies, they just look so cool.
Plus they made chiptunes versions of some of the music from Legends, and it sounded awesome!

It makes me so happy that there are fans dedicated enough to make something like this.
And they were able to display so much knowledge and appreciation of the series, so that other fans of the series would be sure to enjoy themselves.
I really hope the other teams working on MML3 fan games end up finishing their projects as well.
I'm still looking forward to the Unity version that one team is working on, that one looks very promising!
At this point, we probably won't ever see an official Mega Man Legends 3 game, which is a shame, as it was something I'd always hoped would exist ever since I played the first two games.
But at the very least, there are fans out there who are dedicated to seeing the series live on.
Fan-made games are better than no games at all, in my opinion :)
